---
published: true
---
#### 30th of November, 2021

### How important is cultural and historical context to the reception and production of a text?

- Cultural and historical context is taken into account when receiving information, as that is how humans communicate in daily life as well. For example, when someone says "I gotta go," and you've talked with them about an appointment they've had, you understand they are talking about it when they mention that they've got to go. This is true for everything. When talking about thanksgiving, the information known before is crucial to one's understanding.
 
- Culture and history manipulates information in a way for it to fit one's thoughts. An event that seems insignificant may be significant to another, and a portrayal of an event represents how the author sees that event itself, which is affected by their culture and history.

- For example, for Native Americans, prior knowledge of what happened in thanksgiving, possibly through stories told by their parents; changes it to a day of sorrow, even if the whole country is full of joy. Perhaps they receive those celebrations as an insult, or as a celebration of the day or the times when they were enslaved.

- Because of Joy Harjo's culture and knowledge of her history, representation of Native Americans and other minorities plays a big role in her poems. She chooses to focus on these topics, because of her historical knowledge and emotions. 

## I Release You Fear

Questions to consider: 

How does Harjo’s culture impact the message she chose to convey in the text?

How does Harjo’s historical background (choose a specific topic learned today) impact the message she chose to convey in the text? 

How does your culture or history impact the way you receive the message? 

>"I release you, fear, because you hold these scenes in front of me and I was born with eyes that can never close."

- "Born with eyes that can never close." -> Being born into a native family, she was born with eyes that cannot close because throughout her childhood; she had been hearing about the stories of Natives. Thus, she is naturally seeking information about her background.

- In comparison, I didn't even know Native American people existed before I was around 7, which is around the first time I remember seeing a depiction of them in a movie. A depiction that shows them in their cultural outfits, and as village-people; compared to the western cowboys. I didn't think about them much, just thought they looked a bit funny. I didn't think of them as oppressed or anything, nor did I feel like at any point they were "less than human", which is a way they've been seen as in the past. As a child who had no connection to those people and whose main concern was entertainment, they just felt like normal people; in fact, since they were the village people of that land, _they_ were the norm. These all mean that information received depends highly on the cultural background of the receiver. Having no knowledge of Native American people, the representation I saw was completely normal; nor did anything feel out of place.

### Historical Events(8) -> Connection to the Fear Poem

- Thanksgiving - what they do not teach in schools 
>"I give you back to the white soldiers who burned down my home, beheaded my children, raped and sodomized my sisters." 
- This quote refers to the events happened after the first thanksgiving; meaning she is aware of her history, and is trying to get it across.

- Life on Native American Reservations 
>"You have gutted me but I gave you the knife." 
- Even though they were wronged by the Europeans, they still trusted them and tried to make pacts with them, which resulted in more pain. Their land got smaller and smaller, as if they were bleeding out, and they were subdued even more as they were attacked, which is similar to giving more weapons to your attacker, as "more weapons" could be interpreted as opportunities.

- Trail of Tears - 
>"Oh, you have choked me, but I gave you the leash." 
- As their lands were getting less and less, the Natives did not show a strong opposition. Thus, they were forced to undertake a big journey from the East to the West, called "The Trail of Tears". They were forced into this; after "being choked" into smaller and smaller pieces of land, they "gave \[them] the leash" and were led to the west.

- Muscogee Creek Nation Spirituality, Beliefs and Culture 
>"I release you with all the pain I would know at the death of my children."
- When burying the dead, the Muscogee dig the graves by hand, and cover it by hand. Everyone throwing a handful of dirt to "give a handshake" is one of the rituals done. This line can be likened to that action; releasing the dirt from one's hand, along with the pain.

- American Indian Boarding Schools
>"You can’t live in my eyes, my ears, my voice my belly, or in my heart my heart."
- Here, she may be talking about the inauguration of the Native Americans in the boarding schools. Saying they can't live in her senses, she resists the imposition of the cultural values of European people.

- Indian Reservation System
>"I release you." -repeated many times.
- Even though the the Europeans have imprisoned them, the Native Americans release their fears, 
their fears being the Europeans. They do not fear them, nor do they hate them.




